GOOD EVENING EVERYONE
AND WELCOME TO THE AUGUST SEVEN
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE
FLAG.
AMERICA SAYS
WHAT OUR CLERK
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNSEL
COUNSELOR HERE COUNSELOR
HARRISON COUNSELOR WATSON HERE,
COUNSELOR MALLOCK HERE BECAUSE
OF OUR DENHA WEBSITE KEANSBURG.
HERE WE ARE TAYLOR HERE COMES
RIGHT HERE.
HERE COMES RIGHT HERE CERVARIX
HERE HILLSBORO, CORNELL.
WE HAVE A QUORUM IN A MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE AGENDA
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER ALIASING
BY COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA ON
FAVOR ALL OPPOSED THE AGENDA IS
PROVED WITH COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR NOEMIA.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
GENERAL TIME RATHER RESERVE
TIME PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE
TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
ACCOUNTS IN THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST
TO SPEAKER PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME ONE NEEDS TO HAVE
SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING OUR CITY CLERK
SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES WE'LL
HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION TO THE TIME OUR CLERK
OR THE TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY
YOU IN THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING
AND WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
WHEN YOUR TIME'S EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
RAYMOND SAANICH
MAYOR.
THIS CALL SUSAN
RAY SOMET CAN
YOU HEAR ME NOW?
GO AHEAD.
YEAH YES WE CAN.
>> OH THANK YOU.
I APOLOGIZE.
I THOUGHT I WAS BEING HEARD
CLEARLY BEFORE.
THANK YOU FOR ALLOWING ME THE
TIME TO BE WITH YOU THIS
EVENING.
MAYOR, COUNCIL PRESIDENT,
COUNCIL MEMBERS MY TIME'S
LIMITED SO I WILL GET RIGHT TO
IT.
THIS IS ONLY A SUMMARY OF OUR
HORRIBLE SITUATION.
WE CAN PROVIDE FULL AND
VERIFIABLE DETAILS.
WE HAD EXPECTED TO OPERATE A
BUSINESS IN YOUR CITY FOR THE
LAST FIVE MONTHS AND FOR YEARS
TO COME BUT OUR COMPANY HAS
BEEN SERIOUSLY WRONG AT A LEVEL
OF NEARLY A MILLION DOLLARS AND
THIS AMOUNT INCREASES DAILY.
MANY PEOPLE ARE BLAMING EACH
OTHER BUT RESPECTFULLY I MUST
TELL YOU THAT YOUR CITY MUST
TAKE FULL RESPONSIBILITY.
LAST YEAR WE DECIDED TO
PURCHASE AN EXISTING DISPENSARY
IN ANN ARBOR.
WE'VE BEEN A CULTIVATOR IN
MICHIGAN FOR FOUR YEARS THAT WE
KNEW OF THE STRICT REGULATORY
ENVIRONMENT AT OUR NEED FOR
EXTENSIVE DUE DILIGENCE AUGUST
TWENTY THIRD OF LAST YEAR OUR
TEAM DROVE TO ANN ARBOR FROM
OUR OFFICES TO MEET WITH RACHEL
RECONNOITER THE FIRST OF MANY,
MANY COMMUNICATIONS WITH HER.
RACHEL OUTLINED EVERYTHING WE
NEEDED TO DO IN ORDER TO
LEGALLY AND OPERATE A BUSINESS
AT 450 SOUTH MAIN STREET.
SHE NEVER EXPRESSED ANY
POSSIBILITY THAT WE MIGHT NOT
BE ABLE TO OPERATE SINCE WE HAD
NO KNOWLEDGE OF YOUR CITY
ORDINANCES WE TRUSTED RACHEL AS
A REPRESENTATIVE OF YOUR CITY
TO PROVIDE US ACCURATE
INFORMATION.
LAST OCTOBER 30TH WE RECEIVED A
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY FROM
YOUR CITY TO OPEN OUR
DISPENSARY ON THE DAY AFTER
RECEIVING THIS OFFICIAL
ASSURANCE THAT WE COULD OPERATE
WE EXECUTED AT OUR BUSINESS
TRANSACTION MAKING A VERY LARGE
DOWN PAYMENT EXECUTING A
MULTI-YEAR LEASE.
ON FEBRUARY 12TH WE PASSED
INSPECTION BY THE BUREAU
OF FIRE SERVICES ON FEBRUARY
20TH WE PASSED THE SIERRA PRE
LICENSURE INSPECTION AND THE
ARNAB BUILDING DEPARTMENT
INSPECTION.
ON MARCH 11 WE SUBMITTED OUR
ANN ARBOR CANNABIS PERMIT
APPLICATION WITH A FIVE
THOUSAND DOLLARS FEE SUDDENLY
OUT OF NOWHERE WE WERE NOTIFIED
THAT WE WERE IN VIOLATION OF A
CITY ORDINANCE AND WE COULD NOT
OPEN OUR BUSINESS.
REMEMBER A DISPENSARY OPERATED
AT THIS EXACT LOCATION FOR
YEARS ANOTHER DISPENSARY IS
STILL OPERATING JUST AROUND THE
CORNER.
WE PAINSTAKINGLY FOLLOWED EVERY
DIRECTIVE GIVEN BY
REPRESENTATIVES OF YOUR CITY
AND THEN YOUR CITY SUDDENLY
TOLD US WE COULD NOT OPERATE.
HOW COULD OUR CITY CAUSE US TO
BE HARMED IN THIS WAY?
WE'D MADE A HUGE FINANCIAL
INVESTMENT NOT ONLY IN THE
BUSINESS WE BOUGHT AFTER
RECEIVING THE CITY CERTIFICATE
OF OCCUPANCY AND THE PROPERTY
THAT WE PAY RENT ON EVERY MONTH
BECAUSE WE SIGNED A LEASE BUT
IN OUR PEOPLE COMMUNICATING
WITH OUR STAFF, OUR LEGAL FEES
AND AFTER ALL THIS WE'RE STUCK
AT ZERO REVENUE BECAUSE OF THE
CONTINUING HORRIFIC SERIES
OF OVERSIGHTS, MISFEASANCE AND
MAYBE MALFEASANCE THATTHE THIS
IS WRONG IT NEEDS TO BE
CORRECTED STARTING TONIGHT.
PLEASE HELP US TO DO BUSINESS
AND BECOME A PART OF YOUR
COMMUNITY.
THAT'S ALL WE'RE ASKING FOR.
I KNOW I'M OUT OF TIME.
THANK YOU FOR ALLOWING ME TO
SHARE OUR TRUTHS.
WE LOOK FORWARD TO SPEAKING
MORE WITH YOU ABOUT THIS.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MICHAEL
LANKAS
.
THANK YOU FOR ALLOWING ME TO BE
HERE TONIGHT AND ADDRESS CITY
COUNCIL.
MY NAME IS MICHAEL AGNESE AND I
REPRESENT KINGS HIGH KING-SIZE
CURRENTLY ATTENDED AT 450 SOUTH
MAIN STREET.
HOWEVER, WHEN MY CLIENT HAS
BEEN PAYING RENT LOCATION FOR
THE LAST EIGHT MONTHS HE'S
UNABLE TO OPEN AS YOU'VE
ALREADY PREVIOUSLY HEARD HIS
THIS LOCATION HAS BEEN A
PROVISIONING CENTER AND MOST
OF ITS RECENT PAST HISTORY
FULLY LICENSED AND APPROVED BY
BOTH THE STATE OF MICHIGAN, THE
CITY MANAGER, MY CLIENT WHO HAS
ILLEGALLY LICENSED GROW
ACQUIRED THIS LOCATION WITH THE
FULL UNDERSTANDING IMPRESSION
THIS USE WOULD CONTINUE.
THEY DID THEIR DUE DILIGENCE
WITH BOTH THE STATE AND THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
KINGSIDE RECEIVED THEIR
APPROVAL FROM THE CRA AND WAS
MOVING FORWARD FOR FINAL
LICENSING WHEN THE STATE ASKED
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR FOR THE
EXCEPTION OF THIS LOCATION
UNDER THEIR ORDINANCE.
THIS, HOWEVER, DID NOT EXIST
MUCH TO THE SURPRISE OF ALL
INVOLVED AS A RESULT, KINGSIDE
ESTATE VACANT A CITY OF ANN
ARBOR IS OUT OF THEIR PORTION
OF THE EXCISE TAX THAT THEY
WOULD BE ENTITLED TO FURTHER
COME LATER THIS YEAR.
ANOTHER DISPENSARY WILL BE OUT
OF COMPLIANCE BASED UPON THE
ORDINANCE, THE CITY CLERK WILL
BE UNABLE TO CERTIFY THAT THEY
ARE OUTSIDE THE THOUSAND FOOT
REQUIREMENT OR THE OR THAT
THERE IS A CITY EXEMPTION FOR
THESE LOCATIONS.
I'M HERE TONIGHT TO THANK YOU
FOR CONSIDERING THE
MODIFICATIONS, THE ORDINANCE OR
EVEN DOING A TEMPORARY
PROVISION THAT WOULD CORRECT
THIS OVERSIGHT BY THE CITY.
I'M ALSO HERE TO ASK THAT THE
RESOLUTION BE A QUICK ONE AND
THAT TAKES SIX MONTHS.
IF THAT OCCURS MY CLIENT WILL
STILL BE UNABLE TO OPEN THE
EXISTING PROVISIONING LOCATION
WILL HAVE TO SHUT DOWN AND THIS
WILL BECOME SOMETHING MORE OF A
PROBLEM THAN IT IS NOW.
I'M SURE THE CITY LIKE ALL
CITIES USE THE MONEY GENERATED
TO HELP OUT WITH SPECIAL
PROJECTS AS THEY SHOULD.
BUT WITH THE CONTRACTION IN THE
INDUSTRY GOING ON IT SEEMS
PRUDENT TO BE PROACTIVE WITH
OUR PROBLEM.
SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
I WANT TO THANK JOHN RIISER AND
JOHN CORNELL FOR WORKING WITH
US ON THIS ISSUE IN SUCH A
PROFESSIONAL CONSISTENT MANNER
AND WE LOOK FORWARD TO A QUICK
RESOLUTION SO WE CAN BECOME THE
GOOD TAXPAYING BUSINESS WE
EXPECTED WHEN WE STARTED THIS
APPROXIMATELY TEN MONTHS AGO.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JESSICA
KELLY.
THANK COUNCIL FOR ALLOWING ME
TO SPEAK.
I'M HERE ON BEHALF OF MY SON
BRANDON KELLY.
BRANDON WAS A RESIDENT AND ARVA
BEFORE HE BECAME HOMELESS.
BRANDON WAS PICKED UP BY ANN
ARBOR POLICE.
HE WAS HOMELESS FOR SEVERAL
MONTHS EXPERIENCING CHRONIC
MENTAL ILLNESS.
BRANDON WAS PLACED IN WASHTENAW
COUNTY JAIL AND HE HAS NOT BEEN
RECEIVING COURT ORDER
TREATMENTS.
I HAVE SPOKEN WITH THE OFFICE
PROSECUTING ATTORNEY'S OFFICE.
I'VE BEEN JUST PULLING TOOTH
AND NAIL IS TRYING TO GET HIM
SOME COURT ORDER TREATMENT.
THE ANN ARBOR POLICE IS WELL
AWARE OF HIS MENTAL ILLNESS
BECAUSE BACK IN TWENTY TWENTY
THREE THEY PICKED HIM UP.
HE WAS HOMELESS, PLACED AT U
OF M AND THEN TO A MENTAL
FACILITY AND I'M JUST I DON'T
KNOW WHAT TO DO.
YOU KNOW, I'VE DONE EVERYTHING
I'VE SUBMITTED EVERYTHING TO
THE COURTS IN REGARDS TO HIS
CONDITION.
BUT TO SEE MY SON JUST FALLING
APART IN COURT IS HEARTBREAKING
FOR A MOTHER WHO LIVED IN THIS
AREA FOR TWELVE YEARS AND WE'VE
WORKED WE'VE WORKED HARD
PROBABLY WE'VE PROBABLY SERVED
A LOT OF YOU BECAUSE WE'RE IN
CENTRAL SERVICES.
I ALSO READ AN ARTICLE WHERE IT
SAID POLICE FOUR TIMES MORE
LIKELY TO QUOTE CRIMINAL
CHARGES FOR BLACK PEOPLE IN
WASHTENAW COUNTY.
THAT'S DISHEARTENING.
THAT'S UNCONSCIONABLE TO ME.
SEVENTY ONE PERCENT OF THE
VOTERS IN WASHINGTON COUNTY
VOTED FOR KAMALA HARRIS, 17
PERCENT OF WASHTENAW COUNTY IS
BLACK, SEVEN PERCENT IS BLACK
AND ANN HARBOR, WHAT IS GOING
ON WITH OUR JUSTICE SYSTEM
DEALING WITH THOSE WHO ARE
HOMELESS, THOSE WHO ARE DEALING
WITH CHRONIC MENTAL ILLNESSES?
I REALLY WOULD LIKE FOR THE
COUNCIL TO REALLY TAKE SOME
TIME AND LOOK INTO THAT BECAUSE
TO SEE HIM FALLING APART AND I
CAN'T AFFORD REPRESENTATION FOR
MY SON ALL I CAN DO IS SUMMIT
IN, CRY OUT AND SAY CAN YOU
PLEASE JUST, YOU KNOW, REALLY
HAVE SOME COMPASSION?
YOU FOR HIM WE'RE COMMUNITY,
YOU KNOW AND WE'RE YOU KNOW,
WE'RE STRONGER TOGETHER IF WE
JUST TAKE THE TIME TO LISTEN A
LOT OF PEOPLE HERE BUT THEY
DON'T LISTEN AND SO I AM
WORKING WITH SOME PEOPLE NOW.
I WENT TO THE BOARD
OF COMMISSIONERS YESTERDAY AND
SPOKE AND THEY ARE TRYING TO
ASSIST US IN THIS BECAUSE YOU
KNOW, HE REALLY NEEDS SOME HE'S
HE'S SUFFERING AND HE REALLY
NEEDS PEOPLE TO CARE AND YOU
KNOW, I I I DON'T KNOW WHAT
ELSE TO DO IN REGARDS TO
GETTING HIM THAT COURT ORDER
TREATMENT BY MAYBE THE COURTS
JUST HAVING SOME COMPASSION AND
RECOGNIZING THAT THIS ERRATIC
BEHAVIOR IN COURT IF YOU GET
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER, HENRY
HERSKOVITS
.
>> GOOD EVENING.
HOPEFULLY OUR HIGH SCHOOL
STUDENTS LISTENED WITH OPEN
MINDS TO A SEGMENT OF ALL
THINGS CONSIDERED LAST MONTH ON
NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO.
THE BROADCAST INCLUDED A
DOCUMENTARY CALLED HITLER'S
MEIN KAMPF PRELUDE TO THE
HOLOCAUST PRODUCED BY TWO
JEWISH AUTHORS JOHN MCCAIN, ONE
OF THE AUTHORS DESCRIBES MEIN
KAMPF AS AND UNORIGINAL
INCOHERENT MASH UP OF RACIST
THEORIES AND WOUNDED PRIDE.
BUT IS IT A RECENT TRANSLATION
BY OF MEIN BY REVISIONIST
AUTHOR THOMAS DALTON STRONGLY
COUNTERS THIS CLAIM BY MCCOLE
CHUCK DALTON WRITES AS
ANTI-SEMITIC AS HITLER WAS IT
SURPRISINGLY LIKELY THE JEWS
GET OFF THEY ARE BANNED FROM
CITIZENSHIP AND THEREFORE FROM
ANY ROLE IN GOVERNMENT OR THE
PRESS.
RECENT JEWISH IMMIGRANTS LIKE
ALL IMMIGRANTS MUST LEAVE BUT
NO THREATS TO IMPRISON OR KILL
JEWS, NO CONFISCATION OF WEALTH
AND CERTAINLY NOTHING THAT
SOUNDS LIKE A LOOMING HOLOCAUST
.
HERE'S THE BOOK HITLER
IMPRESSED ME WITH AN
UNDERSTANDING OF THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN ZIONISTS AND ANTI
ZIONIST JEWS A CONCEPT THAT
TOOK ME OVER FIVE YEARS TO
FULLY GRASP HE WROTE THERE WAS
THERE WAS A GREAT MOVEMENT
AMONG THEM WELL REPRESENTED IN
VIENNA IN WHICH STRONGLY
CONFIRMED THE NATIONAL
CHARACTER OF JEWRY THIS WAS
ZIONISM.
FROM OUTWARD APPEARANCES IT
SEEMED AS IF ONLY PART OF THE
JEWS CHAMPIONED THIS MOVEMENT
WHILE A GREAT MAJORITY
DISAPPROVED OR EVEN REPUDIATED
IT.
BUT A CLOSE EXAMINATION SHOWS
THAT THESE APPEARANCES WERE
DELIBERATELY MISLEADING.
THEY EMERGED FROM A FOG
OF THEORIES THAT WERE PRODUCED
FOR REASONS OF EXPEDIENCY IF
NOT OUTRIGHT DECEPTION.
THE SO-CALLED LIBERAL JEWS DID
NOT REJECT THE ZIONIST AS IF
NON JEWS BUT ONLY AS BROTHER
JEWS WITH AN IMPRACTICAL OR
EVEN DANGEROUS WAY OF PROMOTING
JEWRY.
>> THIS FICTITIOUS CONFLICT
BETWEEN ZIONISTS AND LIBERAL
JEWS SOON DISGUSTED ME.
>> IT WAS THOROUGHLY FALSE AND
IN DIRECT CONTRADICTION TO THE
MORAL DIGNITY AND IMMACULATE
CHARACTER ON WHICH THAT PEOPLE
HAD PRIDED ITSELF.
>> THAT WAS ONE HUNDRED YEARS
AGO LAST MONTH.
I HOPE OUR STUDENTS GET A
CHANCE TO READ
THIS EXCELLENT
BOOK AND DECIDE FOR THEMSELVES.
THANK OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHY
GRISWOLD.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M HERE TONIGHT TO REPEAT THE
INFORMATION THAT WOULD INDICATE
THAT WE HAVE A CRISIS IN THIS
COMMUNITY.
WE HAVE A CRISIS REGARDING OUR
PEDESTRIAN CRASH RATE.
TRUMP RECENTLY FIRED SOMEONE
BECAUSE HE DIDN'T LIKE THE
STATISTICS THAT WERE GIVEN
INSTEAD OF FIRING SOMEONE IN
ANN ARBOR.
WE JUST DON'T COLLECT THE DATA
.
>> UNFORTUNATELY PETER HOKE IS
COLLECTING THE DATA IN TWENTY
TWENTY THREE WE HAD TEN CRASHES
WHICH WAS THE HIGHEST IN OVER A
DECADE IN TWENTY TWENTY FOUR WE
HAD TEN CRASHES.
I'M REFERRING TO FATAL IN
SERIOUS PEDESTRIAN CRASHES IN
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE YEAR TO DATE
WE'VE HAD EITHER TWELVE OR
THIRTEEN SERIOUS OR FATAL
PEDESTRIAN CRASHES.
THESE ARE REAL PEOPLE.
THESE ARE OUR NEIGHBORS AND WE
NEED TO TAKE IMMEDIATE ACTION
TO DO SOMETHING.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE CAN
DO IS IMPROVE VISIBILITY THAT
WOULD INCLUDE ILLUMINATION,
POSITIVE CONTRAST LIGHTING,
SIGHTLINES.
>> I'VE TALKED ABOUT SIGHTLINES
MANY, MANY TIMES.
I DON'T KNOW WHY IT'S SO
COMPLICATED NUMBER THREE, WE
NEED LOCAL ORDINANCES AND
ONGOING OVERSIGHT BASED ON THE
60S AND SAFE SYSTEMS APPROACH
AN EXAMPLE OF SIGHTLINES AND
THE PROBLEMS THAT ARE OCCURRING
IS THE TWO WAY CYCLE TRACK AND
MILLER AVENUE I KNOW THAT'S
UNDER CONSTRUCTION BUT IN
DECEMBER SIXTEENTH OF TWENTY
TWENTY THREE THE WALK BIKE
WASHED.
OUR GROUP ISSUED A STATEMENT
STATING THE PROBLEM WITH THAT
TO A CYCLE TRACK ON THE SOUTH
SIDE OF MILLER AVENUE FROM
FIRST TO MAPLE ROAD THREE
THINGS WRONG WAY CYCLING CYCLE
CYCLE CRASHES WHEN YOU'VE GOT
CYCLISTS GOING IN TWO WAYS
HEADLIGHT CONFUSED AND THESE
PROBLEMS EXIST TO SOME DEGREE
WITH THE FOUR CURRENT CYCLE
TRACKS AROUND THE DOWNTOWN AREA
.
THE PROBLEMS ARE WORSE ON
MILLER BECAUSE OF THE HIGHER
CARS SPEEDS MORE CONFLICT
POINTS ON THE S NINTH STREET
INTERSECTIONS IN MANY
DRIVEWAYS, LESS LIGHTING AND A
LIKELIHOOD THAT PEOPLE
EXERCISING LESS CAUTION ON
MILLER THAN DOWNTOWN.
SO WHILE WE'RE NOW IN THE
CONSTRUCTION PHASE, THIS
INFORMATION WAS BROUGHT TO THE
CITY AGAIN DECEMBER 16TH.
TWENTY TWENTY THREE LASTLY, I
JUST WANT TO LEAVE YOU WITH
THIS IMAGE WHICH I SENT TO THE
MAYOR ALREADY WE'VE HAD MANY
CONSTRUCTION SITES WHERE THE
CONTRACTORS ARE GIVEN THE USE
OF OUR PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY.
IT'S A PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
BECAUSE IT'S OWNED BY THE
PUBLIC.
IT IS NOT TO BE GIVEN TO
PRIVATE DEVELOPERS UNLESS THERE
IS A AGREEMENT AND IT SHOULDN'T
BE DONE ONLY WHEN WE CAN
MAINTAIN THE SAFETY OF OUR
CITIZENS.
THE CITY ADDRESSES TODAY BUT
PLEASE TAKE A LOOK AT THIS.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL COUNCILMAN BECAUSE
WE HAVE.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I WANT TO THANK JESSICA KELLY
WHO I BELIEVE HAS LEFT FOR THE
STORY THAT SHE SHARED IT
ACTUALLY WAS HEARTBREAKING AND
IT IS KIND OF INDICATIVE
OF SOMETHING THAT I'M GOING TO
SHARE IN A MINUTE AND AN ISSUE
THAT I BELIEVE THAT WE NEED TO
WORK ON WITH OTHER
JURISDICTIONS.
SO I WANT TO SPEAK ABOUT
SOMETHING THAT'S RELATED.
I'VE RECEIVED A NUMBER OF CALLS
AND MESSAGES ABOUT THIS ISSUE
AND I SHARE THE CONCERN AND I
THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO SHOW
OUR CITY STANDS SO RECENTLY THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT RELEASED AN
EXECUTIVE ORDER THAT ENCOURAGES
CIVIL COMMITMENT AND
INVOLUNTARY TREATMENT FOR
INDIVIDUALS EXPERIENCING
HOMELESSNESS WHO HAVE MENTAL
ILLNESS OR SUBSTANCE USE
DISORDER.
THIS INVOLVES SEEKING TO
OVERTURN OR TERMINATE JUDICIAL
PRECEDENTS AND CONSENT DECREES
.
>> THE ORDER ENCOURAGES THE
CRIMINALIZATION OF HOMELESSNESS
EASES LEGAL BARRIERS TO FORCE
COMMITMENT AND THREATENS TO
DIVERT FEDERAL FUNDING AWAY
FROM VOLUNTARY EVIDENCE BASED
PROGRAMS LIKE HOUSING FIRST
HARM REDUCTION AND COMMUNITY
BASED BEHAVIORAL HEALTH CARE.
>> THIS IS A DANGEROUS STEP
TOWARDS AUTHORITARIANISM AND
HERE IN ANN ARBOR WE REJECT
THIS APPROACH.
WE KNOW FROM DECADES
OF RESEARCH THAT
INSTITUTIONALIZATION DOES NOT
IMPROVE LONG TERM MENTAL OR
PHYSICAL HEALTH OUTCOMES NOR
DOES IT HELP PEOPLE SECURE
STABLE HOUSING.
WHAT DOES WORK IS A WELL FUNDED
CONTINUUM OF CARE THAT INCLUDES
HOUSING FIRST PERMANENT
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES QUALITY
MENTAL HEALTH CARE, SUBSTANCE
USE DISORDER TREATMENT AND
COMMUNITY BASED SUPPORT NOT
INCARCERATION OR CONFINEMENT.
>> I'M WORKING WITH HOUSING
SERVICE PROVIDERS AS WELL AS
OUR CITY STAFF TO ENSURE OUR
LOCAL POLICIES REFLECT THESE
VALUES.
I'VE ALSO BEEN IN TOUCH WITH
MEMBERS OF THE STATE
LEGISLATURE TO ENCOURAGE
INTRODUCTION THE GLORIA JOHNSON
ACT HERE IN MICHIGAN WHICH IS A
BILL DESIGNED TO PROTECT
UNPAUSE INDIVIDUALS FROM
CRIMINAL PENALTIES WHEN NO
ADEQUATE SHELTER EXISTS.
WE NEED STATE LEVEL PROTECTIONS
THAT UPHOLD THE DIGNITY AND
RIGHTS OF PEOPLE WHO ARE IN
HOUSE THE MAJORITY OF WHOM ARE
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES WITH
OTHER MARSYAS IDENTITIES.
I WANT TO THANK ORGANIZATIONS
LIKE THE SHELTER ASSOCIATION
OF WASHTENAW COUNTY FOR
RELEASING SIMILAR STATEMENTS
AND FOR REACHING OUT.
HOMELESSNESS IS NOT A CRIME.
IT'S A STRUCTURAL FAILURE THAT
DEMANDS COMPASSIONATE AND
SYSTEMIC RESPONSE AND OUR WORK
STANDS WITH THIS COMMUNITY AND
ALL OF ITS MARGINALIZED
COMMUNITIES.
>> THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN
BRECKMAN BECAUSE COUNCIL MEMBER
OF DENHA ISN'T HERE.
I HAVE THE PLEASURE OF SHOWING
YOU THE LIBRARY CODE AND I
GUESS TO START OUT WITH I JUST
WANT TO THANK RESIDENTS FOR
SUPPORTING PROPOSALS AND B
WHICH PASSED RESOUNDINGLY.
SO WITH THAT I WILL SHOW THE
CODE I'M TOLD I SHOULD ALSO
READ E TO EVERY PARK AND DID
YOU KNOW THAT ANN ARBOR HAS 162
PARK PROPERTIES THIS SUMMER IS
A GREAT TIME TO START THE VISIT
EVERY PARK CHALLENGE AND EARN
REWARDS ALONG THE WAY YOU CAN
REGISTER AT VISIT EVERY PARK
CHALLENGE AND I BELIEVE THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER MALIK HAS DONE
THIS CHALLENGE.
MAYBE OTHERS ON THIS BODY HAVE
AS WELL.
SO I WOULD ENCOURAGE THAT.
SECOND, I WOULD LIKE TO CORRECT
THE RECORD WITH REGARD TO ONE
OF THE PUBLIC COMMENTS STATING
THAT THE CITY DOES NOT COLLECT
CRASH DATA EVERY MONTH BODY
RECEIVES A REPORT FROM THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR ON CRASH'S AND WE
GET A CRASH REPORT OVERALL THAT
COMES FROM THE STATE ONCE A
YEAR.
IN ADDITION TO THAT ON
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION WE
REVIEW SERIOUS AND FATAL
CRASHES AND I'M WORKING TO
CODIFY THAT REVIEW IN OUR CITY
ORDINANCE RIGHT NOW.
IT'S A TRAGEDY ANY TIME SOMEONE
GETS SERIOUSLY INJURED OR OR
KILLED ON OUR ROADS AND THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT THIS BODY TAKES
SERIOUSLY AND AND SO YEAH, I
WANTED TO CORRECT THE RECORD.
THANKS, COLONEL.
>> YEAH.
IT'S IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE REALLY
NICE THIS WEEKEND AND SO I
WANTED TO REMIND OUR COMMUNITY
THAT OUR DOWNTOWN SUMMER
STREETS ARE STILL HAPPENING.
THAT MEANS MAIN STREET AND
PARTS OF LIBERTY ARE CLOSED
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
NIGHTS.
AND I WANTED TO LET PEOPLE KNOW
OF SOME REALLY FUN PROGRAMING
THURSDAY AND FRIDAY NIGHT BOTH
FROM SEVEN TO NINE P.M. THERE
WILL BE LIVE MUSIC INCLUDING
FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO HAVE
PARTICULAR TASTES THE TWO FIVE
ONE ORCHESTRE WHICH SHOULD BE
VERY IMPRESSIVE AND FUN AND
THEN ON SATURDAY FROM EIGHT
THIRTY TO TEN THIRTY AND I AM
REALLY RIDICULOUSLY EXCITED
ABOUT THIS A SILENT DISCO WHICH
WILL BE RIGHT OUTSIDE OF CHERRY
REPUBLIC.
SO I HOPE THAT YOU WILL COME
DOWN EXPERIENCE HOW VIBRANT OUR
CITY STREETS ARE ON THE WEEKEND
EVENINGS AND HOW WHAT IT'S LIKE
FOR THE PEOPLE TO BE ABLE TO
TAKE THE STREETS AND HAVE THE
CARS GONE.
>> SO I HOPE TO SEE YOU OUT
THERE.
COUNCIL MEMBER THIS THANK YOU
MAYOR TAYLOR.
THANK YOU FOR THE WEATHER
REPORT AND THE INVITATION
CANCELED MY RECORD.
I WANT TO REMIND EVERYONE ON
BEHALF OF ME AND COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON THAT WE WILL BE HAVING
A COFFEE HOUR AT 6PM ON MONDAY,
AUGUST 25TH AT THE LOWERTOWN
BAR AND CAFE AND OUR SPECIAL
GUESTS THAT EVENING WILL BE
MEMBERS OF THE PLANNING STAFF.
IT WILL CERTAINLY BE MR.
LINNETT AND POSSIBLY HIS
BENNETT AND WE WILL BE TALKING
ABOUT WE WILL BE TAKING YOUR
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN.
>> SO WE'LL BE PSYCHED TO SEE
YOU THERE.
I'D LIKE TO ECHO THE THANKS
THAT HAVE ALREADY BEEN GIVEN TO
PEOPLE WHO CAME OUT AND VOTED
AND GLAD FOR EVERYONE WHO CAME
OUT BUT PARTICULARLY GLAD FOR
THE PASSING OF A AND B BECAUSE
WE WILL HAVE A BEAUTIFUL NEW
LIBRARY.
IT'S NOT GOING TO HAPPEN
OVERNIGHT BUT IT'S GOING TO BE
A SPACE THAT WILL BE WELCOMING
AND FUNCTIONAL AND FILLED WITH
LOTS OF USEFUL SERVICES FOR
EVERYONE NO MATTER HOW YOU
VOTED ON THE ON THE
PROPOSITION'S COUNCIL MEMBER, I
JUST WANTED TO CONFIRM WHAT
COUNCIL MEMBER BROUGHT UP ABOUT
ME HAVING VISITED EVERY PARK IN
ANN ARBOR ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY
TWO.
BUT I BRING THAT UP ONLY TO SAY
I VISITED THEM LAST YEAR ALL
OF THEM AND I JUST FINALLY GOT
MY ACT TOGETHER AND COLLECTED
MY PRIZES FOR VISITING THEM ALL
INCLUDING SOME OF THE LOWER
TIERS FOR VISITING TWENTY FIVE
FIFTY AND SEVENTY FIVE I
BELIEVE IT WAS UP IN A STICKER
BUT SOME OF THE LARGER PRIZES
LIKE FOR VISITING THEM ALL WAS
A SWEATSHIRT AND A T SHIRT THAT
THEY VISIT EVERY PARK SO
ANOTHER INCENTIVE TO GET OUT
THERE AND SEE THEM ALL.
>> THANKS
.
FURTHER COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL I'D LIKE TO RECOMMEND
THE FOLLOWING NOMINATION FOR
YOUR CONSIDERATION TO THE START
DISTRICT COMMISSION SARAH
NESBIT AND JENNA CARTER IN
TERMS OF I'D LIKE TO EXTEND THE
THANKS PARADE A LITTLE BIT IN
CONNECTION WITH OUR ELECTION
OF COURSE TO ALL THE VOTERS WHO
TURNED OUT ON ON TUESDAY AND
BEFOREHAND BUT ALSO CRUCIALLY
TO TO OUR STAFF AND BY THAT
OF COURSE WITH PRIMACY YOU HAVE
YOU ARE AMAZING INDISPENSABLE
KARPE JACKIE BUJJI AND HER
STAFF BUT ALSO IT'S IMPORTANT
TO REALIZE AND RECOGNIZE THAT
THE ELECTION THAT THAT WE AS A
AS A CITY WE AS A COMMUNITY RUN
EVERY CYCLE IT IS IT IS STAFFED
BY TEMPORARY WORKERS IN THE
MAIN THEY COME OUT THEY ARE
COMMITTED TO DOING THEIR PART
TO PARTICIPATING IN THE
DEMOCRACY, ENSURING THE THE
EFFECTIVE AND ACCURATE EXERCISE
THAT DEMOCRACY AND WE FRANKLY
COULD DO WITHOUT THEM.
AND SO I JUST WANT TO EXTEND AN
ADDITIONAL THANKS THANKS.
>> TOWARDS TOWARDS THOSE FOLKS
WE NOW HAVE BEFORE US THE
CONSENT GENDER MAY HAVE A
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
CONSENT AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCILMAN REDISH SEVEN I
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA COUNCIL BRITISH.
>> I DON'T WANT TO PULL
ANYTHING BUT I WANTED TO MAKE A
COUPLE OF REMARKS ABOUT ITEMS
SIX THROUGH SIX THROUGH C14.
THIS IS A SERIES OF ITEMS THAT
HAVE TO DO WITH THE BRYANT
COMMUNITY DECARBONIZATION
PROJECT AND THIS PROJECT WILL
BE PROVIDING RESIDENTS
OF BRYANT WITH SERVICES RANGING
FROM ENERGY EFFICIENCY,
ELECTRIFICATION, BATTERY
STORAGE TO GEOTHERMAL HEATING
AND COOLING.
THIS IS AN INCREDIBLE PROJECT
AND THE RESIDENTS OF THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD ARE AMAZING TO BE
SIGNING UP FOR ALL THIS WORK
AND TESTING THIS TECHNOLOGY.
IT IS BRAVE THEY ARE FORGING A
TRAIL THESE ITEMS COVER ABOUT
TEN MILLION DOLLARS IN GRANTS.
IT'S MAYBE EVEN A LITTLE BIT
LONGER MORE THAN THAT AND THIS
IS BOTH WORKING PARTNERSHIP
BETWEEN OSSI AND THE COMMUNITY
ACTION NETWORK AND THE COUNTY
OFFICE OF COMMUNITY AND
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND WITH
ANN ARBOR SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
UTILITY.
>> SO THAT IS AN AMAZING
WORKING PARTNERSHIP AND IT IS
THE FUNDING PARTNERSHIP WITH
MCKNIGHT FOUNDATION, THE
MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION, THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN, WASHTENAW COUNTY
OCZ AS WELL.
AND SO THIS IS A REMARKABLE
EFFORT THAT I DON'T KNOW WHAT
THE FLOWCHART LOOKS LIKE TO
MANAGE IT BECAUSE IT'S NUTTY
BUT IT IS MOVING US NOT INTO
THE 21ST CENTURY BUT I THINK
INTO THE TWENTY SECOND FURTHER
DISCUSSION THE CONSENT AGENDA I
JUST WANT TO GILD THE LILY A
LITTLE BIT WITH RESPECT TO THE
WORK THAT THE CITY WILL BE
DOING IN THE BRYAN AREA.
IT IS ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF THE
INDISPENSABLE WORK PERFORMED
AND ORGANIZED UNDER A SET
OF EXTREMELY TRYING
CIRCUMSTANCES BY THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION LED OF COURSE BY DR.
STULTS AND IN COLLABORATION AS
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH IDENTIFIED
WITH THE GOOD PEOPLE IN THE
BRYANT NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE KNOW THAT ALL TOO OFTEN OUR
LOWER INCOME AREAS OF OUR
COMMUNITIES THROUGHOUT ANN
ARBOR AND THROUGHOUT THE
COUNTRY RECEIVE INSUFFICIENT
ATTENTION AND WE IN ANN ARBOR
ARE COMMITTED TO TO REVERSING
THAT TREND.
WE AS A MUNICIPAL ORGANIZATION
HAVE WORKED WITH THE RESIDENTS
OF THE BRYANT DISTRICT MAKING
SURE THAT THEY UNDERSTAND AND
LEAD WHAT NEEDS TO BE DONE IN
THEIR IN THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD AND
WE ARE COMMITTED TO TO HELPING
THEM ACCOMPLISH THEIR GOALS.
THE INSULATION SERVICES,
WEATHERIZATION SERVICES, SOLAR
ENERGY, APPLIANCE REPLACEMENT
ROOF WORK, SOLAR WORK,
ELECTRICAL SYSTEM HEATING AND
COOLING.
I PROBABLY MISSED SOMETHING
ELSE.
ALL THAT WORK THAT'S GOING TO
BE DONE IN THE COURSE OF THE
BRIAN IN THE BRIAN NABOR OVER
THE COURSE OF THE NEXT COUPLE
IS GOING TO SUBSTANTIALLY
IMPROVE THE THE HEALTH OF OUR
RESIDENTS, THE QUALITY OF THEIR
LIVES AND AFFORDABILITY AND I
COULDN'T BE MORE EXCITED PROUD
ABOUT THE WORK ORGANIZATION IS
DOING IN THIS CONTEXT FURTHER
DISCUSSION SORRY COUNCILMAN
RACKMAN WE WIPPEL A16
FURTHER
DISCUSSION ALL IN FAVOR SET THE
AGENDA WITH THE S.A.C. A16 ALL
APPROVED OR OPPOSED.
>> WE CAN SET THE AGENDA WITH
THE EXCEPTION OF A16 IS
APPROVED WITH TEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTING IN
THE AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING
THE EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH
RESPECT TO THE ONE
FOURTEEN
THAT IS ALL SIXTEEN RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE THE THIRD AMENDMENT
TO PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREED
WITH MILLER CANFIELD PADDOCK
AND ST. P.L.C. FOR PROFESSIONAL
SERVICES RELATING THE RBA S
PROJECT AND APPROPRIATE FUNDS
THE AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGG SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN
DISCUSSION SIXTEEN COUNCILMAN
DIRECTOR.
>> I COULD ADDRESS THE QUESTION
TO THE CITY ATTORNEY GIVEN THAT
THIS IS THE THIRD AMENDMENT TO
THIS FOR LEGAL SERVICES I WAS
HOPING YOU COULD SPEAK TO THE
KINDS OF LEGAL SERVICES THAT
WE'RE TRYING TO GET ASSISTANCE
WITH ON THIS.
SURE.
THIS IS TO HELP WITH THE IRS
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT AND THE
PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP AND
THE REASON YOU'RE SEEING A
THIRD AMENDMENT IS BECAUSE
OF THE PROJECT AND DISCUSSIONS
HAVE BEEN GOING ON FOR AN
EXTENDED PERIOD OF TIME.
WE ARE TRYING IN FACT WE DO
MOST OF THE WORK IN-HOUSE IN
THE TEAM BUT IT HAS PROVEN TO
BE ESSENTIAL REALLY ESSENTIAL
TO HAVE MR FASIL TO CONSULT
WITH BECAUSE FRANKLY ANN ARBOR
HAS NOT DONE A PUBLIC PRIVATE
PARTNERSHIP DEAL IN THE
HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
AND OUR TEAM IS REALLY CAPABLE
HE HAS DONE THESE DEALS ACROSS
THE STATE AND EVEN NATIONALLY
AND IT HELPS TO JUST ISSUE WITH
FRANKLY IF I WERE LETTING HIM
DO ALL THE WORK WE WOULD HAVE A
MUCH HIGHER BUILD IN THIS.
BUT WE DO NEED HIM TO CONSULT
WITH PERIODICALLY ALSO THE
OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE PROPOSED IN
THE DEAL IS THAT OF A
CONDOMINIUM CONCEPT WHICH IS
NOT SOMETHING THAT WE ARE VERY
USED TO DEALING WITH IN THE
TEAM SO WE COULD USE HIS
EXPERTIZE THERE.
>> THANK YOU.
SO I'VE RAISED CONCERNS ABOUT
THE CITY'S PARTICIPATION IN
THIS PROJECT AND I GUESS I WANT
TO TAKE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO
ONCE AGAIN TO SAY THAT I THINK
THAT THE PROJECT ITSELF IS
GREAT.
THE AMOUNT OF HOUSING, VERY
COMPELLING AFFORDABLE HOUSING,
VERY COMPELLING.
I REMAIN CONCERNED ABOUT OUR
PARTICIPATION, OUR
PARTICIPATION IN THE PARKING
GARAGES AND THE OWNERSHIP
STRUCTURE THAT THIS FEELS LIKE
IT'S MOVING TOWARDS ME EVEN
MORE CONCERNED BECAUSE I'M
WORRIED THAT IT LIMITS WHAT WE
CAN PERHAPS REPURPOSE THESE TO
DO SO OBVIOUSLY I'M SUPPORTIVE
OF DOING OUR DUE DILIGENCE ON
THIS PROJECT BUT I'M NOT SURE I
CAN SUPPORT, YOU KNOW,
CONTINUED INVESTMENT IN THIS
BECAUSE I STILL HAVE TOO MANY
CONCERNS.
THANKS, COUNCILOR GARCELON.
>> I THANK YOU.
>> I APPRECIATE SOME OF THE
COMMENTS THAT COUNCIL MEMBER
BARKMAN ACKMANN SHARED AND I
ALSO HAVE SIMILAR KIND
OF HESITATIONS AND CONCERNS.
BUT FROM TALKING TO YOU AND
HEARING MORE ABOUT SOME OF THE
RESOURCES THAT YOUR OFFICE
NEEDS AS WELL AS THE EXPERTIZE
,I HOPE THAT BY YOU KNOW, BY
RETAINING THESE SERVICES THAT I
WILL BE ABLE TO GET SOME
OF THAT INFORMATION AND ANSWERS
TO THOSE QUESTIONS.
>> SO THAT IS WHY I WILL BE
SUPPORTING THIS TONIGHT FURTHER
DISCUSSION
OBSERVING THAT EIGHT
VOTES ARE REQUIRED AND
ANTICIPATING THAT THERE WILL BE
THREE PERHAPS VOTES OPPOSED
THAT PUTS US AT SEVEN MOVEON.
ANY FURTHER QUESTIONS
ROLL-CALL
VOTE PLEASE STARTING WITH
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH COUNCIL FOR
DISH YES.
COUNCILOR HARRISON YES.
>> COUNCILOR WATSON YES.
COUNCILOR MALIK YES.
COUNCILOR DENHA ABSENT ELLSBURG
01.
YES.
RETAILOR YES.
COUNCILOR IGHER YES.
COUNCILOR ACLAND NO ELSEWHERE
BRIGGS
NO.
>> COUNCILOR CORNELL YES.
MOTION WE WE DO NOT HAVE ANY
PUBLIC HEARINGS TODAY.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES OF JULY
21 AND THE WORK SESSION MINUTES
OF JULY 28.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE HAVE MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THESE MEN
APPROVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER CORNELL DISCUSSION
PLEASE.
>> IF ANYONE ALL FAVOR OR
OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED WE DO
NOT HAVE ANY SECOND OR FIRST
READINGS.
WE DO HAVE ONE RESOLUTION
REGARDING THE DRAFT
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
CONTRACT AMENDMENT MOVE BY
COUNCIL NO SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC ONE ON FAVOR
OR OPPOSED
TO THE ROLE THAT QUESTION NO IS
YES IS OK ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE
START WITH COUNCIL THE BRITISH
COUNCIL BRITISH YES HOUSEWARE
HARRISON YES BECAUSE WE'RE
WATSON YES COUNCILOR YES.
COUNCILOR DENHA ABSENT
COUNCILOR YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES SIR.
ER YES WE'RE AT YES COUNCILOR
BRIGGS NOW ELSEWHERE CORNELL NO
MOTION CARRIES DC TWO
RESOLUTION TO ADOPT THE CITY
OF BANABA UNMANNED AIRCRAFT
SYSTEMS US USE POLICY MOVED BY
COUNCILOR HARRISON SECOND BY
COUNCILOR MALIK DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC TO ON.
I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
TO AMEND THE RESOLUTION CLARK
VAUDREY IF YOU COULD PLEASE
CIRCULATE THE AMENDMENT
SHOULD
I JUST GO AHEAD AND READ IT SO
I WOULD LIKE TO ADD THE
FOLLOWING RESOLVE CLAUSE TO THE
END OF THE RESOLUTION IS THE
LAST RESOLVED CLAUSE AND IT
READS RESOLVED THAT CITY
COUNCIL DIRECTS THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO REPORT BACK
WITHIN SIX MONTHS OF THE POLICY
IMPLEMENTATION AND HOW DRONES
HAVE BEEN USED IN ORDER TO HELP
CITY COUNCIL DETERMINE WHETHER
ANY AMENDMENTS OR ADDITIONAL
PROTECTIONS SHOULD BE
CONSIDERED.
>> IS THERE A SECOND CITY
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
DISCUSSION RATHER STILL THE
FLOOR THE YOU YOU KNOW BEFORE I
SPEAK TO THE REASONING BEHIND
THIS AMENDMENT, I JUST WANT TO
TAKE A MOMENT TO THINK A FEW
PEOPLE THIS IS GOING TO BE LIKE
CREDITS AND A MOVIE BUT CITY
ADMINISTRATOR MILTON DOWNEY,
DEPUTY CITY ADMINISTRATOR MARIA
WALTIN, CITY PROSECUTOR GENERAL
NETSKY, CHIEF ANDERSON
ESPECIALLY COUNCIL MEMBER WERE
DENHA AND COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON AS WELL AS MEMBERS
OF THE ACLU AND OTHER ADVOCATES
.
I WANT TO THANK YOU.
ALL OF THEM REALLY WORKED
COLLABORATIVELY, OBJECTIVELY
AND DELIBERATELY TO ADDRESS THE
PRIVACY, PRIVACY AND CONSTANT
NATIONAL CONCERNS THAT OFTEN
ACCOMPANY SURVEILLANCE RELATED
TECHNOLOGIES.
I KNOW SPECIFICALLY THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA WORKED
EXTENSIVELY WITH THE ACLU TO
ENSURE THAT SOME OF THESE
CONCERNS WERE ADDRESSED AND
THAT THIS POLICY ALIGNED WITH
BEST PRACTICES AND
SURVEILLANCE.
THAT BEING SAID, YOU KNOW, I'M
SUPPORTIVE OF ESTABLISHING A
DRUG USE POLICY.
I UNDERSTAND THAT THERE'S AN
ARRAY OF DIFFERENT USES THAT
ARE NEEDED AT THE SAME TIME,
YOU KNOW, I DO HAVE SOME
RESERVATIONS ABOUT THE LANGUAGE
LAID OUT IN THIS RESOLUTION.
I KNOW THAT RESIDENTS ARE ALSO
CONCERNED ABOUT PRIVACY AND
DATA USE AND I ALSO KNOW THAT
OUR COUNCIL MEMBERS AND OUR
STAFF DON'T WANT TO SPEAK FOR
EVERYONE BUT WE TOO WE'RE
COMMITTED TO ENSURING THAT
THESE CONCERNS ARE ADDRESSED
AND PROTECTING RESIDENT DATA.
>> SO WOULD THAT BEING SAID,
YOU KNOW, WITH US IMPLEMENTING
USE OF NEW TECHNOLOGY, I REALLY
BELIEVE WE JUST HAVE A
RESPONSIBILITY TO MONITOR HOW
THEY'RE BEING USED AND TO
EVALUATE WHETHER THEY'LL ALIGN
WITH SOME OF OUR VALUES CIVIL
LIBERTIES.
AND THIS IS WHY I AM PROPOSING
THAT A REPORT COMES BACK IN SIX
MONTHS IS THAT FOR ANY OF THE
BODY FRIENDLY?
>> THANK YOU.
GREAT.
THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION THE MAIN
MOTION AS AMENDED COUNCILOR
COUNCILOR HARRIS.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR IS
ONE OF THE THINGS I WANT TO
THANK OUR STAFF INCLUDING OUR
POLICE CHIEF FIRE CHIEF I.T.
TEAM AND THE LEGAL COUNSEL
ESPECIALLY JUNDAH NETSKY FOR
WORKING CLOSELY WITH THE
COUNCIL ADMINISTRATION
COMMITTEE AND THE ACLU TO SHAPE
A DRONE POLICY THAT PUTS
COMMUNITY TRUST AND DATA
INTEGRITY FIRST.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR DEDICATION
TO RESPONSIBLE GOVERNANCE IN
THIS RAPIDLY EVOLVING DIGITAL
AGE.
IN AN ERA WHEN THIRD PARTY
PLATFORMS ARE QUIETLY SHARING
SENSITIVE DATA WITHOUT WARRANTS
OR CLEAR CONSENT, OUR CHOICE TO
HOST FOOTAGE INTERNALLY IS BOTH
A TECHNICAL DECISION AND A
CIVIL LIBERTIES SAFEGUARD THAT
PROTECTS OUR FIRST RESPONDERS
FROM UNINTENDED MISUSE AND
SHIELD RESIDENTS FROM
EXPLOITATION BY SYSTEMS OR
OPAQUE SURVEILLANCE PRACTICES.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THAT'S MY RACKMAN.
YEAH I JUST WANTED TO THANK
COUNCIL MEMBER GHAZI EDWYN FOR
BRINGING THE AMENDMENT FORWARD
BECAUSE IT ADDRESSES ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT THAT I THOUGHT AS I
LOOKED AT THIS POLICY WHICH IS
HOW CAN CITY HAVE MORE
TRANSPARENCY INTO HOW THESE ARE
BEING USED?
AND YOU KNOW, RECENTLY FOR
EXAMPLE, I HAD A DRONE I WAS
NOT I DON'T KNOW WHAT IT WAS.
IT WAS A DRONE FLYING AROUND MY
NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE COULD HEAR IT.
IT WAS GOING IN A DIFFERENT
GUARDS AND YOU START WONDERING
WHAT THE HECK IS THIS DRONE?
I FEEL LIKE BEING TRANSPARENT
ABOUT OUR DATA ALLOWS PEOPLE TO
YOU NOT ASSUME THAT IT'S LAW
ENFORCEMENT.
I GUESS YOU COULD WONDER WHAT
ELSE IT IS BUT WE SHOULD AT
LEAST BE DOING OUR DUE
DILIGENCE.
SO I APPRECIATE THAT WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE A REPORT A REPORT
BACK AND I WOULD REALLY LIKE
FOR US TO EXPLORE HOW WE CAN
PRESENT ANY KIND OF THE MOST
SIMPLE DASHBOARD THAT REPORTS
ON ACTIVITY OF THIS BECAUSE I
THINK IT'S IMPORTANT ALONG WITH
THE REST OF OUR POLICE
ACTIVITIES, THINKS COUNCIL
MEMBER CORNELL, I HAVE A
QUESTION I BELIEVE FROM HIS
CORE.
>> BUT IN SECTION FOUR IT SAYS
PEOPLE ALSO HAVE A REASONABLE
EXPECTATION AGAINST BEING
SUBJECTED TO PROLONGED AERIAL
SURVEILLANCE OR BEING FOLLOWED
BY US SURVEILLANCE EVEN IN
PUBLIC AREAS FOR SIGNIFICANT
PERIODS OF TIME.
>> AND MY SIGNIFICANT MIGHT BE
FOUR HOURS AND COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG'S MIGHT BE FIVE MINUTES.
SO IS THERE A STANDARD
DEFINITION AROUND THAT OR HOW
HOW IS THAT JUST HOW IS IT
DEFINED?
>> CAN I CALL ON ATTORNEY
NETSKY AND SHE RESEARCHED THE
ISSUE YOU MAY THINK YOU
MAY OR
SHE'S JOINING US ON ZOOME
.
OK, JOINDER HOPEFULLY I CAN BE
HEARD AT THIS POINT YOU CAN OK
WONDERFUL.
>> THERE IS NO STANDING LEGAL
DEFINITION OF A SIGNIFICANT
AMOUNT OF TIME.
THAT WAS LANGUAGE THAT WAS
SUGGESTED BY THE ACLU AND
ACCEPTED
.
IF I MAY ASK A FOLLOW UP THEN
WHAT I GUESS WHAT I'M
UNDERSTANDING FROM YOUR
RESPONSE IS THAT THIS IS COULD
THIS BE CONSIDERED A BEST
PRACTICE THAT THAT LANGUAGE IN
PARTICULAR?
>> IT FEELS AMBIGUOUS TO ME.
THAT'S WHY I'M TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND IT.
>> I'M NOT CERTAIN OF WHAT YOU
YOUR QUESTION IS IT A BEST
PRACTICE TO HAVE THAT LANGUAGE
IN IT JUST THAT THE BEST WE CAN
DO IS A SIGNIFICANT PERIOD
OF TIME AND THAT'S WHAT THOSE
WHO ARE VERY ACTIVELY INVOLVED
IN THESE ISSUES HAVE
RECOMMENDED TO THE CITY.
>> I THINK THAT THE SIGNIFICANT
AMOUNT OF TIME ALLOWS FOR
VARIOUS DEFINITIONS OF THE WORD
SIGNIFICANT.
SO AS YOU RAISED MY SIGNIFICANT
MAYBE DIFFERENT THAN MAYOR
TAYLOR SIGNIFICANT AND IT
ALLOWS FOR PEOPLE TO RAISE A
LEGAL ISSUE SHOULD THEY FEEL
SIGNIFICANT ON THEIR OWN SET
OF STANDARDS.
OK, THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
MAY I SAY SOMETHING IS ALWAYS
SO I THINK WHAT THIS WILL DO AS
I'M HEARING THE DISCUSSION IS I
THINK WHAT THIS WL DO IS IF A
RESIDENT FEELS THAT FIVE
MINUTES IS SIGNIFICANT FOR
THEM, THEY WILL BE ABLE TO
RAISE THE ISSUE WITH THE CITY
WHEREAS ANOTHER WHO MAY NOT
THINK FIVE SIGNIFICANT WILL BE
OK WITH HAVING THE DRONE UP
THERE FOR FIVE MINUTES OR MORE.
>> BUT IT ALLOWS RESIDENTS THE
FLEXIBILITY OF RAISING THE
ISSUE WITH A CITY OR WHAT THEY
THINK IS SIGNIFICANT.
>> COUNCILMAN GARCIA, THANK YOU
.
YOU KNOW, I THINK IT WOULD ALSO
BE HELPFUL TO KIND OF JUST
EXPLAIN BROADLY WHAT ARE THE
MAIN USES FOR DRONES, RIGHT?
WHAT ARE THEY TYPICALLY NOT
USED FOR IN ADDITION LIKE WHAT
WOULD BE CONSIDERED IN
VIOLATION OF THIS POLICY OR
AGAINST THE CONSTITUTION, FOR
EXAMPLE?
I DON'T KNOW IF FOLLOWING A
RANDOM PERSON MIGHT, FOR
EXAMPLE, FIT INTO THAT.
I HAVE A FEELING IT WOULD BUT
MAYBE I'M WRONG.
>> SO IF YOU COULD ANSWER THAT,
THAT WOULD BE APPRECIATED,
CORRECT?
CORRECT.
BUT I'M DEFERRING BACK TO MR.
NETSKY AND WE HERE WE HAVE
SPECIFICALLY WRITTEN IN
PROTECTIONS TO ENSURE THAT THE
DRONES ARE NOT USED IN THAT
WAY.
IT'S THE INTENTION OF THE APD
WHICH HAS BEEN CLEARLY STATED
BY OUR CHIEF AND SUPPORTED BY
OUR CHIEF THAT IT WILL BE USED
FOR LIMITED PURPOSES SUCH AS
FINDING MISSING PERSONS.
IT CAN BE USED IN SITUATIONS
WHERE THERE IS AN ACTIVE
HOSTAGE SITUATION OR AN ACTIVE
INCIDENT THAT REQUIRES AN
OVERHEAD SURVEILLANCE TO BE GET
EITHER THE PUBLIC OR POLICE IN
AND OUT SAFELY.
IT WILL NOT BE USED FOR
SURVEILLANCE IN A SENSE
OF RUNNING THROUGH AND OVER AT
RANDOM BUT WOULD BE SUBJECT TO
THINGS LIKE SEARCH WARRANT
REQUIREMENTS WHICH ARE
CONSTITUTIONALLY CLEARLY STATED
AND OR EXIGENT CIRCUMSTANCES
WHICH AGAIN ARE VERY CLEARLY
STATED.
SO THERE IS AN ENTIRE BODY
OF CRIMINAL LAW THAT HAS A
WHOLE SET OF RULES AND
REGULATIONS THAT MUST BE
FOLLOWED
FOR SUCH ACTION TO BE
CONSTITUTIONAL AND THAT WOULD
ABSOLUTELY BE FOLLOWED IF WE
WERE TO USE THEM IN ANY MANNER
THAT WAS PART OF A CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATION.
OTHER USES IN A CITY INCLUDE
MONITORING TOWERS WHETHER IT'S
DIFFICULT FOR AND DANGEROUS FOR
OUR WORKERS TO CLIMB IF A FIRE
HAS TO ADDRESS THE FIRE
DEPARTMENT HAS TO ADDRESS A
FIRE THEY CAN USE A DRONE TO
ASSESS THE DANGEROUS NATURE
OF THE BUILDING BEFORE THEY
SEND PEOPLE TO ENTER.
IF SOMEBODY IS LOST AND
SEPARATED FROM THEIR FAMILY ON
HURON RIVER INSTEAD OF SENDING
STAFF TO COVER SECTIONS OF THE
RIVER, THE DRONE CAN HELP
LOCATE THE LOST CHILD OR FAMILY
MEMBER.
THESE ARE SOME OF THE OTHER
USES THAT ARE CONTEMPLATED IN
THE POLICY COUNCIL MEMBER.
>> WHAT'S ONE THING YOU MIGHT
BE WONDERING?
WELL, SURELY THE CITY IS DOING
WATER RESCUES ANY NUMBER
OF THINGS RIGHT NOW BUT WE
HAVEN'T HAD A DRONE POLICY AND
THE ANSWER IS THAT WE RELY NOW
ON OTHER JURISDICTIONS TO
PROVIDE DRONE SERVICES SO THE
SHERIFFS DEPARTMENT OTHER
THINGS.
SO THE CITY HAS BEEN CONDUCTING
ANY OF THESE ACTIVITIES YET
THIS APPROVING THIS POLICIES IT
ALLOWS THEN NOW POLICE
DEPARTMENT TO GO FORWARD USING
DRONES AND FIRE AND EMERGENCY
SERVICES BUT JUST WANT TO BE
CLEAR THAT IF PEOPLE HAVE IF
DRONES HAVE BEEN USED IN THE
COURSE OF OPERATIONS THEY'VE
BEEN FROM PARTICIPATING
JURISDICTIONS HELPING FURTHER
DISCUSSION TIME.
I'LL TAKE YOUR FIRST ONE IS
BEING ON THE AMENDMENT SO GO
AHEAD.
>> I SURE APPRECIATE IT.
I KNOW THERE'S A LOT
OF QUESTIONS TONIGHT.
I WAS WONDERING, YOU KNOW,
EITHER EITHER ONE OF YOU IF YOU
COULD ANSWER TO JUST THERE WAS
AN ADDITION TODAY MADE IN
REGARDS TO PROTECTING DATA
COLLECTED BY THE DRONE OR THESE
SORT OF DEVICES AND SHARED WITH
OTHER ENTITIES.
>> CAN YOU SPEAK A LITTLE BIT
TO IS THIS DATA JUST GOING TO
BE HANDED OVER PUBLICLY
AVAILABLE?
>> HOW WILL IT BE PROTECTED?
THAT WAS ACTUALLY A YOUR
DECISION.
IT WAS A LATE ADDITION.
IT WAS A GOOD ADDITION AND THE
INTENTION OF THE ADDITION IS TO
ENSURE THAT WE DO NOT SHARE
DATA WITH ANY OTHER
ORGANIZATION UNLESS THE CITY
SPECIFICALLY AUTHORIZES THAT
RELEASE OR IT IS REQUIRED BY
LAW.
SO IT'S NOT SOMETHING WE WILL
HAND OFF TO OTHER ORGANIZATIONS
OR OTHER ENTITIES WITHOUT
FOLLOWING THE LAW AND HAVING AN
ALLEGIANCE IN LAW OR WITH A
SPECIFIC PERMISSION OF CITY TO
DO SO.
>> THANK YOU FOR THEIR
DISCUSSION.
I'D LIKE TO EXPRESS GRATITUDE
TO STAFF FOR WORKING SO HARD ON
THIS KNOWING THAT IT IS AN AREA
OF INTEREST AND SENSITIVITY FOR
MANY FOLKS IN THE COMMUNITY AND
ALSO TO TO THE VARIOUS COUNCIL
MEMBERS WHO HAVE WORKED HARD ON
ON THIS MEASURE.
IT IS REQUIRED A LOT
OF DILIGENCE WORKING WITH
STAFF, WORKING WITH OUTSIDE
STAKEHOLDERS AND OUTSIDE
EXPERTS AND I THINK THAT THE
POLICY THAT WE HAVE WILL SERVE
THE CITY AND ITS COMMUNITY
MEMBERS WELL.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
OR OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED THREE
RESOLUTION DIRECTING THE OUR
PLANNING COMMISSION TO REVIEW
THE MARIJUANA FACILITIES
PROVISIONS OF THE UNIFORM
DEVELOPMENT CODE BLUE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC THREE
COUNCIL GRENELLE.
THANK YOU.
I WANT TO THANK MR LEINERT AND
ATTORNEY RICER AND ATTORNEY CRS
OFFICE FOR BEING SO HELPFUL
WITH US AND FOR THE DISPENSARY
OWNERS WHO'VE TAKEN A LOT
OF TIME TO PROVIDE FEEDBACK ON
THIS IN PARTICULAR AND TO
ANSWER QUESTIONS.
AND SO JUST AS A REMINDER THE
MARIJUANA ORDINANCE OUR OUR
CITY'S MARIJUANA ORDINANCE HAS
NOT BEEN REVISITED OR REVISED
IN SIX YEARS SINCE ITS
INCEPTION.
AND BASED ON THOSE
CONVERSATIONS MY BELIEF IS AND
I'M NOT GOING TO SPEAK ON
BEHALF OF THE CITY BUT MY
BELIEF IS THEY ARE THE
ASSUMPTIONS THAT WERE MADE ARE
NOT NECESSARILY BASED ON
TODAY'S CURRENT MARKET MARKET
REALITIES WHICH IS UNUSUAL.
SO AS THE RESOLUTION STATES BIG
RAPIDS MARKET BATTLE CREEK,
OTHER MUNICIPALITIES HAVE
ACTUALLY ADJUSTED THEIR
ORDINANCES AND REVISED THEM TO
REFLECT WHAT IS ACTUALLY
HAPPENING WITHIN THIS COMMUNITY
WITHIN THEIR COMMUNITIES.
I ALSO WANT TO POINT OUT THAT
THE MONEY WE COLLECT THROUGH
THE MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX AS HAD
BEEN POINTED OUT BY ONE OF OUR
COMMENTERS IS VALUABLE TO THE
CITY.
IT ALLOWS US TO DO WORK THAT IS
OUTSIDE OF THE NORMAL CITY
BUDGET THAT IS INCREDIBLY
IMPACTFUL.
AND SO WHEN COUNCIL MEMBER
GHAZI EDWIN EARLIER WAS TALKING
ABOUT MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES
AND THE IMPACT OF SUBSTANCE USE
DISORDER ON OUR ALMOST
POPULATION, THAT IS MONEY THAT
WE CAN USE TO ADDRESS THAT AND
DO REALLY GOOD WORK IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
>> AND SO REGARDLESS OF WHETHER
YOU TALK OR NOT, THIS IS
BENEFICIAL TO ALL OF US AND
THOSE WHO ARE MOST IMPACTED BY
THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM AND
MENTAL HEALTH ISSUES.
>> AND SO WHILE THIS SPECIFIC
RESOLUTION ASKS THAT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION EVALUATE
HOW WE REGULATE GOING FORWARD,
WE HEARD TONIGHT THAT THERE IS
AN IMMEDIATE NEED TO BUSINESSES
IN OUR COMMUNITY WILL NOT BE
ALLOWED TO OPERATE IN LOCATIONS
WHERE BUSINESSES PREVIOUSLY
WERE ALLOWED TO OPERATE.
AND I DON'T THINK THAT WE WANT
TO BE IN THE BUSINESS
OF PUTTING BUSINESSES BENEFIT
OUR COMMUNITY AS I JUST STATED
IN PERIL.
SO I'M WONDERING IF ATTORNEY
RIISER CAN SPEAK TO WHETHER THE
CITY CAN LOOK INTO A TEMPORARY
ORDINANCE WITH A SUNSET CLAUSE
TO ADDRESS SPECIFICALLY THE
DISTANCE FROM THE DAOUDI
MANSORI SCHOOL SO THAT THESE
BUSINESSES CAN OPERATE AND THE
REASON I AM ASKING IS THIS
PLANNING COMMISSION PROCESS
WHILE IN THIS DRAFT IS DIRECTED
AT SIX MONTHS WE COULD CHOOSE
TO EXTEND THAT AND THEREFORE
PUT THESE TWO BUSINESSES OUT
OF BUSINESS.
GOOD MORNING.
>> GOOD WORK.
GOOD EVENING.
COUNCIL MEMBERS AND THANK YOU
FOR CALLING ME UP HERE.
YES.
LIKE OTHER MUNICIPALITIES HAVE
A CITY CAN HAVE AN ORDINANCE
THAT REDUCES THE THOUSAND FOOT
REQUIREMENT IN STATE LAW EMECO
THREE THROUGH THREE TO SEVEN
NINE FIVE NINE SAYS THAT IT
CAN'T BE WITHIN A THOUSAND FEET
OF A PREEXISTING PUBLIC OR
PRIVATE SCHOOL PROVIDING
EDUCATION IN KINDERGARTEN OR
ANY OF GRADES ONE THROUGH
UNLESS A MUNICIPALITY ADOPTS AN
ORDINANCE THAT REDUCES THE
DISTANCE REQUIREMENT.
THE RIGHT WAY TO DO THAT IS TO
HAVE THE PLANNING COMMISSION
THE I MEAN THE STUDY WHERE
SHOULD THEY GO AND ALL THE
REQUIREMENTS.
THAT'S CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE.
WE ALSO HAVE CHAPTER NINETY SIX
THAT REGULATES CANNABIS
FACILITIES GENERALLY HOWEVER
YOU COULD LOOK INTO AND CHECK
WITH THE STATE AND THEY WANT AN
ORDINANCE WE COULD HAVE WE
COULD HAVE A TEMPORARY CHAPTER
WITH A SUNSET PROVISION WITH
SOMETHING TO THE EFFECT
NOTWITHSTANDING THE PROVISIONS
OF ANY OTHER CHAPTER OF THE
CITY CODE OF BANABA THE
DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS BETWEEN
THE PRE EXISTING K THROUGH 12
SCHOOL AT FOUR 16 S ACTUALLY
SHALL BE REDUCED TO TWO HUNDRED
AND FIFTY FEET WITH A SUNSET
PROVISION PERHAPS JANUARY 1ST
TWENTY TWENTY SEVEN TO GIVE THE
PLANNING COMMISSION SOME
BREATHING ROOM TO STUDY BECAUSE
THE PLANNING COMMISSION IS
YOU'LL SEE IN YOUR RESOLUTION
IS ASKED TO LOOK AT BROADER
THINGS SUCH AS THE USE OF A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION SIU PERMIT
WHETHER THAT'S THE BEST WAY TO
REGULATE WHERE CANNABIS THEY GO
BECAUSE RIGHT NOW YOU CAN'T A
DISPENSARY CAN'T OR
PROVISIONING CENTER CAN'T MOVE
TO A PLACE THAT DOESN'T HAVE AN
AC SO YOU'RE KIND OF TIED TO
THE PARCEL.
BUT TO ANSWER YOUR QUESTION WE
CAN LOOK IN TO THE WHETHER A
TEMPORARY CHAIR OR A CHAPTER
TEMPORARILY REDUCING THE
DISTANCE REQUIREMENT.
I WOULD CHECK WITH THE STATE ON
THAT BUT I DON'T WANT TO GIVE
LEGAL ADVICE ON FLY BUT THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT WE'RE GOING TO
LOOK INTO AND IF WE THINK THAT
WE CAN WE CAN BRING SOMETHING
BACK AT THE EARLIEST JUNCTURE
IF SO REQUESTED.
THANK YOU TO I GUESS ONE POINT
IN A QUICK QUESTION WHY HAVE
YOU MR. WRITER, THERE HAVE BEEN
ZERO COMPLAINTS ABOUT EITHER
ONE OF THESE FACILITIES IN
QUESTION.
PUBLIC SAFETY IS NOT HAD TO
ADDRESS THAT.
THERE'S ZERO COMPLAINTS TO THE
CITY AND THAT'S AN IMPORTANT
POINT TO MAKE AND THEN I GUESS,
MR. KAISER, WHAT WOULD YOU
CONSIDER TO BE A REASONABLE
TIMELINE TO COME BACK TO US
WITH YOUR COUNCIL ON WHETHER OR
NOT THAT'S SOMETHING THAT IS
PERMISSIBLE FOR US TO DO WITH
THE TEMPORARY CHANGE?
>> WELL, IT'S GOING TO TAKE
PUBLICATION AND FIRST FIRST
READING, SECOND READING, PUBLIC
HEARING AND THEN TEN DAYS INTO
EFFECT GENERALLY SO PRETTY SOON
BECAUSE SOME ARE COMING DUE IN
THE FALL AND WE WOULD ALSO WANT
TO DO OUR DUE DILIGENCE TO
CHECK OUR MAPS BECAUSE THIS
CAME ABOUT BECAUSE THE CANNABIS
REGULATORY AGENCY, THEY'RE
THEY'RE BEING MORE CIRCUMSPECT
WITH RESPECT TO WHERE THESE ARE
TO SEE IF THERE MIGHT BE
ANYTHING ELSE OUT THERE, ANY
GOTCHAS FOR US.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING I WORK WITH
THE CLERK'S STAFF TO MAKE SURE
THAT THEY'RE WE'RE NOT VOLUBLE
IN ANY OTHER LOCATION BUT
PRETTY QUICK, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH FOR THE DISCUSSION.
YES.
NO BRIGS AND I WOULD THINK
COUNCIL MEMBER CARINDALE FOR
BEING ON TOP OF THIS.
I KNOW THIS IS CERTAINLY NOT AN
ISSUE WHERE WE WANT TO PUT
EXISTING BUSINESSES OUT OF OUT
OF BUSINESS.
BUT MY KIDS WENT TO DADDY
MONTESSORI AND CERTAINLY
PROXIMITY THOUGH THAT WAS A
WHILE AGO I
FROM THE STAFF
THERE AND THIS IS THIS IS NOT A
CONCERN TO THEM.
HOWEVER, I WOULD LIKE TO
PROPOSE A PRETTY SIGNIFICANT
AMENDMENT TO THE RESOLUTION
THAT'S IN FRONT OF US TONIGHT
SENT THAT AROUND TO MISS
BEAUDRY.
SHE CAN SHARE THAT IN WHY
YOU'RE WAITING FOR THAT TO COME
UP TO ANSWER YOUR QUESTION,
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL, I DID
CHECK WITH THE POLICE COMMAND
TO SEE IF THERE HAD BEEN
COMPLAINTS AT ANY OF THE
FACILITIES.
>> THERE'S BEEN NO INCIDENTS OR
COMPLAINTS THERE SO HOPEFULLY
THAT'S COMING INTO YOUR
INBOXES.
SO BASICALLY WITH THE
RESOLUTION DOES IS TO JUST
FOCUS THIS AMENDMENT IS TO
FOCUS JUST ON THE ISSUE AT
HAND, WHICH IS WHETHER THE
THOUSAND FOOT DISTANCE
REQUIREMENT FROM KINDERGARTEN
SHOULD REMAIN IN PLACE OR BE
REDUCED CITYWIDE OR REDUCED IN
CERTAIN ZONING DISTRICTS OR
LOCATIONS IN PARTICULAR THE DAY
AND THERE'S LITTLE FOCUS AT THE
END AROUND TRYING TO EXPEDITE
THIS.
I'VE STRUCK PRETTY MUCH ALL THE
OTHER REVIEW PIECES FOR NOW I
DON'T BASICALLY YOU KNOW THIS
THIS WAS BROUGHT TO US BECAUSE
OF , YOU KNOW, A CHALLENGE
WITHIN THE DAY VERY ISOLATED
INCIDENT.
I PERSONALLY DON'T SEE A NEED
AT THIS POINT TO GIVEN ALL THE
OTHER FRAMING ISSUES THAT WE
HAVE GOING ON RIGHT NOW TO
FOCUS OUR ATTENTION ON THE
OTHER ELEMENTS OF THE OF OUR
MARIJUANA ORDINANCE.
SO I THINK MY MY PREFERENCE TO
HAVE US FOCUSED ON THE ISSUE AT
HAND AND LEAVE LEAVE IS OTHER
ISSUES AROUND YOU KNOW, AACAP
WHETHER THAT SHOULD BE LIFTED.
YOU KNOW, THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE AND THE OTHER YOU KNOW,
REVIEWING THE OTHER PROVISIONS
FOR A LATER DATE.
>> IS THERE A SECOND SECOND BY
COUNCILMAN BRITISH JUST FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE AMENDMENT,
COUNCILMAN CORNELL, I
APPRECIATE MY WARD FIVE
COLLEAGUE VERY MUCH THE REASON
THERE ARE A LOT
OF PRACTICALITIES AROUND WHY
THIS IS MORE COMPREHENSIVE AND
I BELIEVE MR. VISER BRIEFLY
TOUCHED ON THIS.
HE DID IS THAT WHEN WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT LOCATIONS THERE
ARE MULTIPLE FACTORS.
THE THE ORDINANCE IS COMPLEX AS
WRITTEN AND SO IF YOU SAY YES
TO ONE THING IT MAY BE IN
VIOLATION OF ANOTHER.
SO GETTING THE HOLISTIC PICTURE
OF IT ALLOWS US TO INFORM OUR
PLANNING STAFF AND THE CITY
CLERK'S OFFICE AS TO WHERE WE
MIGHT TRIP OURSELVES UP BECAUSE
THERE ARE SO MANY DIFFERENT
FACTORS LAYERED INTO THIS
ORIGINAL ORDINANCE.
AND MR. ISAR, IF I MISSPOKE,
WILL YOU PLEASE CORRECT ME?
I WILL.
IF YOU DO WHAT YOU HAVE IN
REEXAMINE BECAUSE HE HAD ON
BECAUSE I PRIOR TO BE ON THE
COUNCIL WHEN I FIRST URBAN
PLANNING COMMISSIONER AT ONE
POINT WHEN I STARTED PLANNING
COMMISSION I WENT THROUGH THE
PROCESS OF WHEN WE WERE
ENACTING AND CONSIDERING WHAT
THIS ORDINANCE WOULD BE AND I
REMEMBER THOSE DISCUSSIONS AND
THEY WERE LONG DISCUSSIONS AND
THEY WERE WEIGHTY AND WE HAD A
LOT OF PUBLIC INPUT AND IT WAS
IT WAS A LOT AND SO I JUST
THINKING THAT WHILE THERE ARE
REVIEWS THAT ARE IMPORTANT TO
DO OF OUR ORDINANCES
PERIODICALLY, I'M NOT SURE THIS
IS WHERE OUR INTENTION
ATTENTION NEEDS TO BE RIGHT
NOW.
>> COUNCILMAN BRACKMAN, I WAS
WONDERING IF SO I THINK IT'S
COMPLETELY REASONABLE THAT
AFTER FIVE YEARS WE WOULD TAKE
A LOOK AT THIS AND SEE IF IT'S
STILL RIGHT AND I APPRECIATE
THE VERY REAL AND PRESENT
PROBLEMS THAT A COUPLE OF THESE
BUSINESSES ARE FACING AND AGREE
THAT WE SHOULD DRESS THEM
EXPEDITIOUSLY.
I GUESS I HAVE A QUESTION.
MAYBE IT'S FOR STAFF OR MAYBE
COUNCIL MEMBER OR SHE WANTS TO
COME ON IN AND JUST HOW THIS
FITS IN WITH OUR OTHER PLANNING
WORK SPECIFICALLY A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
I WOULD NOT WANT THIS TO PUSH
THAT OUT OR DELAY IT ANY
FURTHER AND MAYBE A SUBSEQUENT
QUESTION IS IF WE'RE ABLE TO
ENACT THIS QUICKER ORDINANCE,
COULD WE PERHAPS DELAY THIS
WORK SO THAT IT WASN'T DUE IN
SIX MONTHS?
THAT'S KIND OF WHAT I'M
WONDERING.
>> SO SORRY THERE'S A LOT
OF QUESTIONS ABOUT MR. LEONARD
I THINK IS COMING IN
BEATING
MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
I'M HERE.
I DON'T THINK THIS WOULD HAVE A
SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
I DO WANT TO BE MINDFUL I
APPRECIATE THE RESOLUTIONS
OF STRATFORD GIVES US SOME
SPACE TO SPEND A LITTLE BIT
OF TIME RESEARCHING ON OUR
MENTIONS OF OTHER COMMUNITIES.
I WOULD JUST ADD TO THE
CONVERSATION IF YOU'RE
INTERESTED I THINK WHEN JUST A
REMINDER WHEN WE CONSTRUCTED
THE FRAMEWORK FOR THESE
REGULATIONS IT WAS A RELATIVELY
NEW USE.
THEY'VE BEEN IN OUR COMMUNITY
FOR A LONG TIME, HAS NOTED THEY
HAVE NOT RESULTED I THINK IN
SOME OF THE FEARFUL OUTCOMES
THAT MAY BE SOME WE WERE TRYING
TO PREVENT AGAINST BY PUTTING
TOGETHER THE REGULATORY
STRUCTURE IN PLACE.
BUT WE ARE OF COURSE HAPPY TO
FOLLOW UP ON EITHER THIS SORT
OF MORE COMPREHENSIVE
RESOLUTION OR A MORE FOCUSED ON
WHATEVER THE DIRECTION IS.
>> THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
BECAUSE YOU HAD ONE.
>> THANK YOU.
I ACTUALLY JUST HAD MY QUESTION
ANSWERED.
THANKS, COUNCILMAN.
BRITISH I AM LET'S SEE.
>> MR. LEONARD HAS SPOKEN I I I
GUESS I'LL ASK A QUESTION
OF MR. LEONARD.
MR. LEONARD, IF THERE THERE IS
AN URGENT SITUATION FOR SOME
POTENTIAL LICENSE HOLDERS AND
AN EXISTING LICENSE HOLDER THAT
INVOLVES THE NOVEMBER TIMELINE
EVEN WOULD EVEN JUST FOCUSING
ON THE ONE PIECE ABOUT THE 1000
FOOT DISTANCE FROM
KINDERGARTEN'S.
DOES THAT EVEN HAVE A CHANCE
OF MAKING IT THROUGH THE THE
MULTIPLE DRAFTING PROCESS, THE
MULTIPLE READINGS THAT PLANNING
COMMISSION AND THE MULTIPLE
READINGS AT COUNSEL IN TIME TO
ADDRESS THAT APPROXIMATE
SITUATION?
I CONTINUE TO BE IMPRESSED WITH
YOUR COMMAND OF THE MESSY ZONE
AND BUREAUCRATIC PROCESS TO BE
CLEAR THAT THIS RESOLUTION IS
PASSED THIS EVENING UNDER THE
FAST SCENARIO UNDER OUR CURRENT
ORDINANCE AND STATE LAW
STRUCTURES, IF YOU WERE TO GIVE
ME AND MY TEAM ONE BUSINESS DAY
UPON ADOPTION THIS THAT WOULD
CAUSE THE NEED FOR ME TO
PUBLISH SCHEDULED A PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION ON MONDAY WHICH
WOULD THEN RESULT IN A TIME
FRAME WHERE YOU WOULD HAVE IT
IN FRONT OF YOU IDEALLY FOR A
SECOND READING ON NOVEMBER 3RD
.
SO IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO GIVE ME
AND MY TEAM MORE TIME WHICH I
WOULD BE GRATEFUL FOR I WOULD
RECOMMEND THAT'S WHY WITHIN THE
SIX MONTHS IS IS I THINK A
REASONABLE TIMEFRAME.
I DON'T EXPECT THAT IT WILL
TAKE THAT LONG.
BUT TO YOUR QUESTION EVEN ON
NARROW CHANGE WOULD HAVE TO
MOVE AND I WOULD SAY A NO
CHANGE WHO WOULD WE WOULD BE
ABLE TO MOVE QUICKLY IF YOUR
RESOLUTION WERE TO FOR EXAMPLE,
FOR EXAMPLE, SUGGEST THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
PLEASE CONSIDER THE ELIMINATION
OF THE SEPARATION FACILITY
REQUIREMENTS FROM K THROUGH 12
SCHOOLS THAT IS THAT IS
OF COURSE A VERY SPECIFIC
DIRECTION THAT WE COULD
ADDRESS.
WE COULD CONSTRUCT THAT
LANGUAGE QUICKLY AND SCHEDULE
IT FOR CONSIDERATION AS QUICKLY
AS WE WORK MORE HOLISTICALLY AT
OTHER APPROACHES OR MORE
COMPREHENSIVELY.
I WOULD BE GRATEFUL OF COURSE
FOR MORE TIME SO WE CAN DELIVER
THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND THE
COUNCIL A MORE REFINED PRODUCT
SO I WONDER ABOUT AMENDING IS
THERE THEN A NEED TO AMEND THIS
RESOLUTION TO SAY PLEASE
PRIORITIZE THAT ONE PIECE AND
TAKE YOUR TIME WITH THE REST?
ALL RIGHT.
NOW WE HAVE AN AMENDMENT ON THE
FLOOR THAT WOULD WOULD AFFECT
THAT.
YES, WE HAVE AN AMENDMENT ON
THE FLOOR THAT WOULD TAKE OUT
EVERYTHING EXCEPT THE ONE PIECE
OF FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THAT
AMENDMENT.
>> COUNCILOR SORRY I'M GETTING
A LITTLE LOST SO I KNOW WHAT
WE'RE CONSIDERING WITH THE
AMENDMENT.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND HOW THIS
MORE QUICK THING THAT YOU'RE
GOING TO LOOK INTO MR RISER
MIGHT IMPACT THIS.
WOULD IT STILL HAVE TO GO TO
PLANNING COMMISSION IF WE DID
THIS LIKE WHAT WAS IT CALLED?
I'M SORRY I CAN'T DO IT.
I WOULD NOT PROPOSE AN
AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE.
WE REGULATE CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
THROUGH JOINING I IN THE
MARIJUANA THIS WOULD BE A
SEPARATE CHAPTER THAT STARTS
OUT NOTWITHSTANDING MAYBE SOME
FINDINGS OK NOTWITHSTANDING THE
PROVISIONS OF ANY OTHER CHAPTER
CONTAINED WITHIN THE CITY
CODE OF ANN ARBOR I.E. FIFTY
FIVE AND NINETY SIX THE
DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS BETWEEN
PREEXIST K OR K THROUGH 12 OR A
PREEXISTING SCHOOL AT FOUR
FIFTY OR WHATEVER IT IS FOR
TWELVE ACTUALLY SHALL BE
REDUCED TO TWO HUNDRED FIFTY
FEET WITH A SUNSET PROVISION.
OK SO THAT'S SEPARATE SOMETHING
THAT COUNCIL COULD DO ON ITS
OWN.
NO PLANNING PERMISSION OK GOT
EVERYONE'S THE FIX BUT THE
RESOLUTION OF SOME SORT IS THE
BIG PICTURE.
HOW SHALL WE REGULATE.
>> OK GOT IT THANKS.
ON THE MINUTE
IT ISSUES AND
COUNTING MY IF I SPOKE TOO MANY
TIMES ALREADY I DON'T THINK YOU
I THINK YOU SPOKE AT ONCE IN
THE GREAT OK SO I THINK I'M
GOING TO I SUPPORT THE IDEA
OF THE AMENDMENT WHICH IS TO
PRIORITIZE ON THE ONE THING BUT
I THINK I'M GOING TO VOTE
AGAINST IT BECAUSE I THINK IT'S
WORTH LOOKING AT THE REST AND I
WOULD PERHAPS JUST JUST PASS
THE ORIGINAL RESOLUTION IN AND
IF WE NEEDED TO AMEND IT OR WE
CAN JUST KNOW THAT MR BENNETT
IS HEARING US WHAT WE WANT HIM
TO PRIORITIZE AND THE SIX MONTH
DEADLINE CAN ALWAYS BE
EXTENDED.
THAT'S ON THE ORIGINAL
RESOLUTION PLANNING COMMISSION
CAN ALWAYS SAY OUR MEETINGS
HAVE BEEN GOING TILL MIDNIGHT
AND WE'RE GOING TO WAIT ON THIS
ONE BUT I DON'T THINK WE NEED
TO STRIP ALL THOSE PIECES OUT
BECAUSE IT ACTUALLY SOUNDS LIKE
THERE'S WILLINGNESS TO LOOK AT
SOME OF THOSE PIECES.
IT'S JUST NOT CLEAR THAT THOSE
ARE NOT URGENT.
THE ONE THING IS URGENT AND WE
CAN ASK THE ATTORNEYS OFFICE IN
PARALLEL TO EXPLORE THE OTHER
OPTION TO TAKE FURTHER TAKE THE
PRESSURE OFF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION, FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF THE AMENDMENT ON THE
AMENDMENT ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE
START WITH COUNCIL MEMBER DE
MEMBER NO CALLS FOR HARRISON.
YES COUNCILOR WATSON NO
COUNCILOR MALIK NO CONCERN
DENHA ABSENT COUNCIL WORK
OUTSIDE ONE NO WE'RE TAYLOR YES
ELSEWHERE ER YES ELSEWHERE
AKMAN NO ELSEWHERE BRIGS YES
CUSTOMER CORNELL NO MOTION
FAILS FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
MAIN MOTION COUNCILOR GOSIA I
DON'T THINK YOU KNOW TO JUST
CLARIFY COUNCIL MEMBER DESH IF
I MEAN I THINK THAT ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT I'M CONCERNED ABOUT
FROM JUST TALKING TO MR LEINERT
IS CAPACITY OF HIS OFFICE AT
THIS TIME JUST DUE TO SOME
OF THE YOU KNOW, WE'VE WE'VE
ISSUED RESOLUTIONS THAT HAVE
RESULTED IN PRETTY SUBSTANTIVE
CHANGES TO THE PLAN AND IT
SOUNDS LIKE COUNCIL MEMBER WHAT
YOU'RE SAYING IS IF WE NEEDED
TO EXTEND THE SIX MONTHS WE
COULD WE DON'T HAVE TO MAKE AN
TO THIS AT THIS TIME IF THAT'S
THE CASE, I'M OK WITH
SUPPORTING THIS AS MR LEINERT
INDICATED THAT THIS WOULD BE
WITHIN CAPACITY AND REASONABLE
TO EXPLORE AT THIS TIME THINGS
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS I GUESS FOR MY
PART I FEEL LIKE THE CAP
OF TWENTY EIGHT IS IS
SUFFICIENT.
IT'S ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
I'VE HEARD FROM A FAIR AMOUNT
ACTUALLY FROM KIDS IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND ALSO I BELIEVE IN
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE BEING
APPROPRIATE.
I'VE REMEMBER THOSE
CONVERSATIONS AND I THINK
THERE'S BEEN SOME STRONG
BENEFITS TO HAVING THIS.
YOU SORT OF PUT THAT OUT THERE
TO FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED
BECAUSE
WE HAVE THE PLEASURE OF A
CLOSED SESSION TODAY.
NO, THANK YOU, MAYOR.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE CLERK'S
SUPPORT OF COMMUNICATIONS
PETITIONS AND REFERRALS NEVER
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE SUPPORT
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
MALIK DISCUSSION OF THE CLERK'S
SUPPORT ALL IN FAVOR POSE THE
IF IT IS APPROVED.
DO YOU HAVE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM AH CITY ATTORNEY?
>> NO THANK YOU MAYOR.
IN THE ABSENCE OF PUBLIC
COMMENT OVERFLOW MAY I PLEASE
HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN MOVE
BY COUNCILOR CORNELL THINKING
MY COUNCILOR BRINGS DISCUSSION
IN FAVOR OPPOSED.
WE'RE ADJOURNED